---
layout: post
categories: blog
share: true
comments: true
title: xfce4.12 not working with xdm
excerpt: make xfce-4.12 working with xdm
date: '2016-01-29T17:00:00+08:00'
#modified: '2014-11-09T23:39:00+01:00'
tags: [xfce4, xdm]
author: MC
hidelogo: true
---

## env info

FreeBSD: 10.2
xfce: 4.12
xdm: 1.1.11

#### issue

cant log into xfce via xdm

#### solution

*vim /usr/local/lib/X11/xdm/xdm-config* add the following content to end;

```conf
DisplayManager*authName: MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1
```

**Caution:**system update may rewrite this config.

#### LINKS

[xfce fails to start from xdm](https://forums.freebsd.org/threads/xfce-fails-to-start-from-xdm.42381/){:target="_blank"}
[Re: ports/154502: x11/xdm authorization failure when used with E17 window manager](http://freebsd.1045724.n5.nabble.com/Re-ports-154502-x11-xdm-authorization-failure-when-used-with-E17-window-manager-td5819660.html){:target="_blank"}

>In FreeBSD PR 154502, you wrote: 
> > Xdm authorization fails after user login. 
> > The user is unable to start an E17 window manager session, and is 
> > returned to the xdm login screen. 
>
> \> Fix: Need to add the missing option: 
> \> DisplayManager*authName: MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 
>
>I take it that the error message 
>XDM authorization key matches an existing client! 
>appears in .xsession-errors. 
>
>I recently encountered this issue when trying to log in using xdm and 
>xfce4-session. Adding the quoted line to xdm-config fixed the problem 
>for me. 
>
>The cause is that the implementation of XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1 is broken if 
>applications execve or unload/reload libX11/libxcb between connections 
>to the X server. More information can be found in 
>http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=486606
>
>Since it is unclear whether XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1 will be fixed and if so, 
>where, I think it is best to disable it in xdm. It looks like adding 
>--disable-xdm-auth to xdm's configure flags will do this but I have not 
>tested it. I think the security impact is minimal; gdm does not use 
>XDM-AUTHORIZATION-1 either. 

**Okay, good luck.**
